We will be creating a AWS Database server

In this task, you will create a security group to allow your web server to access your RDS DB instance. The security group will be used when you launch the database instance.

In the AWS Management Console, in the search box next to  Services , search for and select VPC.

In the left navigation pane, choose Security groups.

Choose Create security group and then configure:

Security group name: DB Security Group

Description: Permit access from Web Security Group

VPC: Lab VPC

Tip: Choose the X next to VPC that is already selected, then choose Lab VPC from the menu.

In the Inbound rules pane, choose Add rule

The security group currently has no rules. You will add a rule to permit access from the Web Security Group.

Configure the following settings:

Type: MySQL/Aurora (3306)

Source: Place you cursor in the field to the right of Custom, type sg, and then select Web Security Group.

This configures the Database security group to permit inbound traffic on port 3306 from any EC2 instance that is associated with the Web Security Group.

Choose Create security group

You will use this security group when launching an Amazon RDS database in this lab.

Task 2: Create a DB Subnet Group
In this task, you will create a DB subnet group that is used to tell RDS which subnets can be used for the database. Each DB subnet group requires subnets in at least two Availability Zones.

In the AWS Management Console, in the search box next to  Services , search for and select RDS.

In the left navigation pane, choose Subnet groups.

 If the navigation pane is not visible, choose the  menu icon in the top-left corner.

Choose Create DB Subnet Group then configure:

Name: DB-Subnet-Group

Description: DB Subnet Group

VPC: Lab VPC

Scroll down to the Add subnets section.

Expand the list of values under Availability Zones and  select the first two zones: us-east-1a and us-east-1b.

Expand the list of values under Subnets and select the subnets associated with the CIDR ranges 10.0.1.0/24 and 10.0.3.0/24.

These subnets should now be shown in the Subnets selected table.

Choose Create

You will use this DB subnet group when creating the database in the next task.

Task 3: Create an Amazon RDS DB Instance
In this task, you will configure and launch a Multi-AZ Amazon RDS deployment of a MySQL database instance.

Amazon RDS Multi-AZ deployments provide enhanced availability and durability for Database (DB) instances, making them a natural fit for production database workloads. When you provision a Multi-AZ DB instance, Amazon RDS automatically creates a primary DB instance and synchronously replicates the data to a standby instance in a different Availability Zone (AZ).

In the left navigation pane, choose Databases.

Choose Create database

 If you see Switch to the new database creation flow at the top of the screen, please choose it.

Select  MySQL under Engine Options.

Under Templates choose Dev/Test.

Under Availability and durability choose Multi-AZ DB instance.

Under Settings, configure:

DB instance identifier: lab-db

Master username: main

Master password: lab-password

Confirm password: lab-password

Under DB instance class, configure:

Select  Burstable classes (includes t classes).

Select db.t3.micro

Under Storage, configure:

Storage type: General Purpose (SSD)

Allocated storage: 20

Under Connectivity, configure:

Virtual Private Cloud (VPC): Lab VPC

Under Existing VPC security groups, from the dropdown list:

Choose DB Security Group.

Deselect default.

Under Monitoring expand Additional configuration.

Uncheck Enable Enhanced monitoring.

Under Additional configuration, configure:

Initial database name: lab

Uncheck Enable automatic backups.

Uncheck Enable encryption

 This will turn off backups, which is not normally recommended, but will make the database deploy faster for this lab.

Choose Create database

 Your database will now be launched.

  If you receive an error that mentions "not authorized to perform: iam:CreateRole", make sure you unchecked Enable Enhanced monitoring in the previous step.

Choose lab-db (choose the link itself).

 You will now need to wait approximately 4 minutes for the database to be available. The deployment process is deploying a database in two different Availability zones.

  While you are waiting, you might want to review the Amazon RDS FAQs or grab a cup of coffee.
 
Wait until Info changes to Modifying or Available.

Scroll down to the Connectivity & security section and copy the Endpoint field.

 It will look similar to: lab-db.xxxx.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com.

Paste the Endpoint value into a text editor. You will use it later in the lab.

Task 4: Interact with Your Database
In this task, you will open a web application running on a web server that has been created for you. You will configure it to use the database that you just created.

To discover the WebServer IP address, choose on the  AWS Details drop down menu above these instructions. Copy the IP address value.

Open a new web browser tab, paste the WebServer IP address and press Enter.

The web application will be displayed, showing information about the EC2 instance.

Choose the RDS link at the top of the page.

You will now configure the application to connect to your database.

Configure the following settings:

Endpoint: Paste the Endpoint you copied to a text editor earlier

Database: lab

Username: main

Password: lab-password

Choose Submit

A message will appear explaining that the application is running a command to copy information to the database. After a few seconds the application will display an Address Book.

The Address Book application is using the RDS database to store information.

 

Test the web application by adding, editing and removing contacts.

The data is being persisted to the database and is automatically replicating to the second Availability Zone.
